---
layout: post
title: The rule of 72
---

#### TODO:
1. Create a d3 app for the rule of 72
    - The users will input rate of return, amount, and output will return a trend line.
    - The user can input multiple rate of return and name them. For each of the rate of return the user can name a trend line, and another trend line will provide the average trend line.
    - Export the graph and the user defined.
    * Allow for dollar cost averaging (Difficult)
    * Disclaimer: Development of software can be rifle with errors. The purpose of this to practice my skills as well develop ideas that will help. However, it would be wise to get it evaluate by a professional.
    * Link: Make a project -> and link it to a blog post.
2. Deploy it on github


### GAP: 
    1. If you look around the internet -> 
    
The rule of 72 is R*T = 72.  This rule of 72 is a handy tool used in finance:

    1. The rule can estimate the time it would take in years to double a sum of money.
    2. The rule can also estimate the annual interest rate required to double a sum of money.



1. Estimating "doubling" time
==========================

2. Estimating the growth rate
=========================

3. Estimating Exponential "Decay" (Loss)
===================================

4. Derivation
===========

5. Tips
=======
    1. Let the rule of 72 convince you not to take on high-interest debt. At an average interest rate of 18% semi-retired credit card debt doubles in just four years (72 / 18 = 4) quadruples in eight years, and become completely unmanagebale after that.
